Several critiques of economic theories would point to the notion of arrested scale in economic theories. Another speculative thrust of the proposed lexicon of intuition would speculate on the scale invariance of the thought experiments. While the specific structure of data would be expected to change with increasing or decreasing scales, it could be conjectured that some statistical properties of these systems would remain the same across scales. A possible open question that emerges out of this is whether these properties would provably fall under the category of statistical fractals. The conjecture that some non-trivial property would emerge to be scale invariant does not necessarily propose statistical fractality.
The radius of a player is an important notion in this case. Scale invariance would imply that under certain conditions, several players can be aggregated into one player, with a defined radius. The converse would also be true, which means that a player would be able to be decomposed into a certain expected number of players. within some acceptable range of determination. Another possible open question would be, whether incentives on the game board could go through this process of aggregation or not. 
The proposition of fractality, or more loosely scale invariance would make the theory independent of scale dependent factors, that act as qualifiers for economic theories. 
The proposition, again, does not diminish the explanatory power of any economic theory, but rather attempts to provide a connective intuition. 