1. Randomness is when the players are able to access the information field
2. The current experiment runs with the players having a single trait, which is abstract wealth. However, players having several attributes would measure wealth using some function on attributes. It can be postulated that the order of precedence of these attributes would not immediately clear to the players. Each participant in the system of the human population has some initial endowment of traits which are randomly assigned. In this setting, each participant is given some equal abstract endowment. The participants in the system are then allowed to interact among each other, where the precedence of some traits over others allows the transfer of abstract value from one participant to another. This order of precedence is set while defining the mean field for the experiment. However, the order of precedence of traits is not available to the participants. The participants however are allowed to reference the localized field, up to the “local information boundary”. Each interaction is triggered by co-location of participants which are allowed to move around the information space in a random walk, and each round of interactions is considered an “interaction cycle”. The participants have a single type of behavior – every ‘K’ interaction cycle, each participant is allowed to access the localized field, and try to deduce what the true order of precedence of traits is for the population and add or subtract from their individual traits. This action, that gives some adaptability to the participants in the system is constrained by some arbitrary budget that prevents over-optimization, in turn leading to convergence toward absolute homogeneity in the system. In this scenario, convergence of the system is the least favorable outcome. Finally, the optimal order of precedence of traits changes over time. Running the experimental setup with virtual data objects, it can be argued that even though the original system started with an equitable monetary endowment to each participant, the outcome, after a sufficient number of interaction cycles would lead to the following observations: 1. 
	1. Heterogenous systems converge independently toward some ‘solution’ of the defined order of precedence of traits 2. 
	2. The Gini coefficient of the entire system would be greater than 0. It would be expected that the coefficient would continue to increase over a larger number of interaction cycles. The marginal increase would be expected to decrease over time.
	3. A similar experiment, run with non-equitable endowments of monetary value would show similar increases in the Gini coefficient of the population.
	4. If each heterogenous sub system of the population, or subpopulation is summarized, the total cumulative wealth of each subpopulation would also show significant variation from each other.
	5. Smaller systems would be expected to converge over time.


8. Death
9. Regeneration
10. Adversarial and Tribal tendencies
11. Multidimensions, and multiple ecologies, and an alternative theory of social sciences