Mean Field Theory (MFT) is a popular theory used in statistical physics, which is often used to summarize the behavior of high-dimensional stochastic models, to produce a single averaged effect of many bodies in the system (Parr, Sajid, & Friston, 2020). The theory attempts to create a homogenous system, giving participant systems certain characteristics and degrees of freedom. Mean field theory uses generalized ideas such as entropy to reach a final behavior of the “mean field” where energy may be thought of as a measure of the improbability of a configuration.
MFT has been used to summarize the behavior of participants in financial market in other studies. (Krishnan & Bennington, 2021) Often it is used to quantify the risks to the financial systems, including systemic risks such as counterparty risks because of too much leverage, or large players in a single market, leading to higher illiquidity risk. Here, the study shall use MFT to summarize human behavior in a homogenous system of information. The main assumption used is that, in modelling human populations, there is sufficient divergence from the “mean behavior” of the homogenous field, among localized fields, which tend to be heterogenous, considering stochastic actions of participant objects in the field (individual humans). In the context of this study, a “field” can be considered a field of information available to the system (the population), including information about which traits (found in each participant) are most advantageous, “traits” can be defined as “n” generalized degrees of freedom that a participant can optimize for, and “participant” is a single human entity in the system. The mean field of the population is considered the absolute information set, and the localized fields are heterogenous information sets (heterogenous, due to stochasticity endemic to the system). “Local information boundaries” are defined as the localized fields available for observation to each participant. 

Given that backdrop, here are the specificities of the implementation 
1. Only trait exhibited by the players, is the "score".
2. The mean field of the game board is in R2 space
3. The players and incentives in the field inherently move in a random walk, though this may change in some contexts. For examples, player's motions may tend toward a certain direction.

## Why is this experiment used to explain systemic inequality? 

Each comment on the structure of the experiment can be abstracted in various forms. 
The experiment is meant to be a simplified model for human behavior's in an informational field. The setup of the experiment was defined with a few assumptions and empirically observed behavior's of humans and human populations: 
1. Human populations behave in a certain way, that can be modelled given a certain information field, but individual human behavior's is idiosyncratic in that context
2. Every human in a population can at no point access all information available to the population, unless the population is small enough. This behavior is modelled by defining the “local information boundary” in the experiment.
3. Every human actor is expected to optimize his/her intrinsic characteristic and assume traits that improve outcomes of that person in society. This is modelled through the optimizing behavior of each participant, after every ‘K’ cycles. This definition of optimizing behavior is more refined. The expansion of radii of the players is a useful abstract to show an increasing optimizing behavior. 
4. This optimization of traits to match what is favored by society is limited by the fact that each participant has several constraints. These may be technological or themselves based on some endowment of skill.
