Piketty's arguments about structural inequality arising because of an imbalance between of the rate of return on assets, and the rate of growth of the economy is persuasive. However, the intuition built by the theory seems to cater to an explanation of why inequality can get exacerbated over time, as opposed to why inequality arises in the first place. 
Approaching economic theory using mathematical practices and algorithmic abstractions ported from classical mechanics has come under severe critique in the past. This critique, does not seem to be about the practice of abstraction, but rather the treatment of economic actors as mechanistic entities. Piketty, on his own theories, states that his arguments never imply absolute economic determinism. [^1] Therefore, any remaking of the theory of the base causes of inequality, that uses abstraction ported from other disciplines, including the theoretical framework of thermodynamics, would require careful usage, purely on the merits of the structure of the results gathered. This would disallow misinterpretation of specificities, and prescriptive arguments derived from theory. This is particularly dangerous, under the Marxist narrative ignoring growth as a theoretical backing, and the liberal narrative of growth supremacy. Growth and inequality are inextricably linked, not only in the sociological sense, but the very structure of human societies cause it to be so.
The thought experiment, and findings of this paper may seem to regress into treating populations as physical systems. However, this may be misleading. The Noosphere of the early economic thought deriving from underlying structure holds some credence, in the fact that structure in theory is useful to build up, through the process of structured critique. It can be speculated that the Noosphere surrounding the emergence of economic theory, due to, and aside from the Industrial revolution, coincided with a greater appreciation for the aesthetics of structure, a trend that has only continued in different forms and epistemes, merging into the current paradigm of economics. The concept of the Noosphere, proposed separately by Vladimir Vernadsky and Teilhard de Chardin is useful here, since it proposes the idea of a collective consciousness, and a less mechanistic form of building theory. 


[^1]: http://piketty.pse.ens.fr/files/Piketty2014NLR.pdf page 104